docs: multi-cluster example (#3265)
jenkins-x/jx-docs: content/en/v3/admin/guides/multi-cluster/multi-cluster-example.md

---
title: Multi-Cluster Example
linktitle: Multi-Cluster Example
type: docs
description: An example how to build a multi-cluster environment using GKE/GSM/DNS
weight: 101
---
 

> This is an example on how to build a multi-cluster environment having two separate cluster repos (i.e. 'dev' and 'prod'). The steps will include building a GKE/GSM/DSN environment from scratch for both environments, and deploying projects to staging and the remote production. It will utilize DNS (`jx3rocks.com`), TLS, Let's Encrypt certificates. This example is inteded for an audience already familiar with Jenkins X operability and focuses on an example of actual commands used to build a multi-cluster  environment. Additional information regarding using Google as the provider for this example can be found under [Google Cloud Platform Prequisites](/v3/admin/guides/tls_dns/#prerequisites).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an example on how to build a multi-cluster environment having two separate cluster repos (i.e. 'dev' and 'prod'). The steps will include building a GKE/GSM/DSN environment from scratch for both environments, and deploying projects to staging and the remote production. It will use DNS (`jx3rocks.com`), TLS, Let's Encrypt certificates. This example is intended for an audience already familiar with Jenkins X operability and focuses on an example of actual commands used to build a multi-cluster environment. Additional information regarding using Google as the provider for this example can be found under [Google Cloud Platform Prequisites](/v3/admin/guides/tls_dns/#prerequisites).
```

### Generate the Infra and Cluster Repos for Dev and Prod

> Using a command-line based approach, the example employs a process modeled after the doc [Setup Jenkins X on Google Cloud with GKE](/v3/admin/platforms/google), and will use Google Secret Manger. It requires installation of [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) and [Hub](https://hub.github.com/) command line tools. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a command-line based approach, the example employs a process modeled after the doc [Setup Jenkins X on Google Cloud with GKE](/v3/admin/platforms/google), and will use Google Secret Manger. It requires the installation of [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) and [Hub](https://hub.github.com/) command line tools. 
```

The following are the values used for the creation of the Infra and Cluster repos for both the Dev and Prod environments:
```
Repo Source:		jx3-gitops-repositories
Prod Infra Repo:	jx3-terraform-gke.prd
Prod Cluster Repo:	jx3-gke-gsm.prd
Dev Infra Repo:		jx3-terraform-gke.dev
Dev Cluster Repo:	jx3-gke-gsm.dev
Git Organization:	$JX3ORG
JX3 Root Directory:	$JX3HOME
```
Building `PROD INFRA` repo: `https://github.com/${JX3ORG}/jx3-terraform-gke.prd` 
```bash
cd ${JX3HOME}
git clone https://github.com/jx3-gitops-repositories/jx3-terraform-gke.git jx3-terraform-gke.prd
cd  jx3-terraform-gke.prd
git remote set-url origin https://github.com/${JX3ORG}/jx3-terraform-gke.prd.git
hub create -p ${JX3ORG}/jx3-terraform-gke.prd
git commit -a -m "chore: Initial"
git push -u origin master
```

> Buidling `PROD CLUSTER` repo: `https://github.com/${JX3ORG}/jx3-gke-gsm.prd`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building `PROD CLUSTER` repo: `https://github.com/${JX3ORG}/jx3-gke-gsm.prd`
```

```bash
cd ${JX3HOME}
git clone https://github.com/jx3-gitops-repositories/jx3-gke-gsm.git jx3-gke-gsm.prd
cd jx3-gke-gsm.prd
git remote set-url origin https://github.com/${JX3ORG}/jx3-gke-gsm.prd.git
hub create -p ${JX3ORG}/jx3-gke-gsm.prd
git commit -a -m "chore: Initial"
git push -u origin master
```
Building `DEV INFRA` repo: `https://github.com/${JX3ORG}/jx3-terraform-gke.dev` 
```bash
cd ${JX3HOME}
git clone https://github.com/jx3-gitops-repositories/jx3-terraform-gke.git jx3-terraform-gke.dev
cd  jx3-terraform-gke.dev
git remote set-url origin https://github.com/${JX3ORG}/jx3-terraform-gke.dev.git
hub create -p ${JX3ORG}/jx3-terraform-gke.dev
git commit -a -m "chore: Initial"
git push -u origin master
```
Buidling `DEV CLUSTER` repo: `https://github.com/${JX3ORG}/jx3-gke-gsm.prd`
```bash
cd ${JX3HOME}
git clone https://github.com/jx3-gitops-repositories/jx3-gke-gsm.git jx3-gke-gsm.prd
cd jx3-gke-gsm.prd
git remote set-url origin https://github.com/${JX3ORG}/jx3-gke-gsm.prd.git
hub create -p ${JX3ORG}/jx3-gke-gsm.prd
git commit -a -m "chore: Initial"
git push -u origin master
```
### Initialize the Prod cluster repo

> Prior to building the prod infra repo prepare the productdion cluster repo for use by removing unecessary components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prior to building the prod infra repo, prepare the production cluster repo for use by removing unecessary components.
```

```bash
cd ${JX3HOME}/jx3-gke-gsm.prd
sed -i '/- key: production/d' jx-requirements.yml 
sed -i 's/-jx././g' jx-requirements.yml 
git commit -a -m "chore: prod cluster repo init"
git push
```
### Build the prod infra with Terraform
The following TF_VAR environment variables are set prior to running Terraform commands:
```
TF_VAR_gcp_project=<prod google project>
TF_VAR_apex_domain_gcp_project=<dns google project>
TF_VAR_jx_bot_username=<git username>
TF_VAR_jx_bot_token=<git token>
TF_VAR_tls_email=mymail@jx3rocks.com

TF_VAR_apex_domain=jx3rocks.com
TF_VAR_subdomain=prd

TF_VAR_gsm=true
TF_VAR_cluster_name=jx3prd
TF_VAR_cluster_location=us-east4-c
TF_VAR_jx_git_url=https://github.com/${JX3ORG}/jx3-gke-gsm.prd.git
TF_VAR_lets_encrypt_production=true
TF_VAR_force_destroy=true
```

> Additional detail on Terraform settings can be found under [Google Terraform Quickstart Template](https://github.com/jx3-gitops-repositories/jx3-terraform-gke/blob/master/README.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional details on Terraform settings can be found under [Google Terraform Quickstart Template](https://github.com/jx3-gitops-repositories/jx3-terraform-gke/blob/master/README.md)
```

> Commands to build intrastructure: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Commands to build infrastructure: 
```

```bash
cd ${JX3HOME}/jx3-terraform-gke.prd
bin/create.sh                # Performs terraform init, plan and apply
```
Validate the prod certificate is active and health checks pass:
```bash
gcloud container clusters get-credentials jx3prd --zone us-east4-c --project <prod gcp project>
export PROD_CONTEXT=`kubectl config current-context`
jx ns jx

> # Wait till the following status is all "green"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Wait until the following status are all "green"
```

jx-webhook                    jx                            OK                   
jx-webhook-events             jx                            OK                   
network-connection-check      kuberhealthy                  OK   
```
### Initialize the Dev cluster repo
Prepare the dev cluster repo for use by removing unecessary components.
```bash
cd ${JX3HOME}/jx3-gke-gsm.dev
sed -i '/- key: production/d' jx-requirements.yml 
sed -i 's/-jx././g' jx-requirements.yml 
git commit -a -m "chore: dev cluster repo init"
git push
```
### Build the dev infra with Terraform
The following TF_VAR environment variables are set prior to running Terraform commands:
```
TF_VAR_gcp_project=<dev google project>
TF_VAR_apex_domain_gcp_project=<dns google project>
TF_VAR_jx_bot_username=<git username>
TF_VAR_jx_bot_token=<git token>
TF_VAR_tls_email=mymail@jx3rocks.com

TF_VAR_apex_domain=jx3rocks.com
TF_VAR_subdomain=dev

TF_VAR_gsm=true
TF_VAR_cluster_name=jx3dev
TF_VAR_cluster_location=us-east1-b
TF_VAR_jx_git_url=https://github.com/${JX3ORG}/jx3-gke-gsm.dev.git
TF_VAR_lets_encrypt_production=true
TF_VAR_force_destroy=true
```

> Additional detail on Terraform settings can be found under [Google Terraform Quickstart Template](https://github.com/jx3-gitops-repositories/jx3-terraform-gke/blob/master/README.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional details on Terraform settings can be found under [Google Terraform Quickstart Template](https://github.com/jx3-gitops-repositories/jx3-terraform-gke/blob/master/README.md)
```

Commands to build intrastructure: 
```bash
cd ${JX3HOME}/jx3-terraform-gke.dev
bin/create.sh                # Performs terraform init, plan and apply
```

> To validate the prod certificate is actiuve and health checks pass:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To validate the prod certificate is active and health checks pass:
```

```bash
gcloud container clusters get-credentials jx3dev --zone us-east1-b --project <dev gcp project>
export DEV_CONTEXT=`kubectl config current-context`
jx ns jx

> # Wait till the following status is all "green"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Wait until the following status are all "green"
```

error: failed to wait for the pipeline to be setup jx3rocks/jx3-gke-gsm-prd: failed to run 'jx pipeline wait --owner jx3rocks --repo jx3-gke-gsm-prd' command in directory '', output: ''
```
### Environments
```bash
# Development
kubectl config set-context $DEV_CONTEXT
kubectl get env
NAME              NAMESPACE            KIND          PROMOTION   ORDER   GIT URL                                           GIT BRANCH
dev               jx                   Development   Never               https://github.com/jx3rocks/jx3-gke-gsm.dev.git   master
jx3-gke-gsm-prd   jx-jx3-gke-gsm-prd   Permanent     Auto        500     https://github.com/jx3rocks/jx3-gke-gsm.prd.git   master
staging           jx-staging           Permanent     Auto        100     

# Production
kubectl config set-context $PROD_CONTEXT
kubectl get env
NAME      NAMESPACE    KIND          PROMOTION   ORDER   GIT URL                                           GIT BRANCH
dev       jx           Development   Never               https://github.com/jx3rocks/jx3-gke-gsm.prd.git   master
staging   jx-staging   Permanent     Auto        100           
```
### Set Dev Container Registry to Public

> In order to deploy applications to the remote prod environment it is required that the dev container registry is publically available. The image below highlights how you can make the change using the Google console.

Reviewer: It's not mandatory. AFAIK the best way to do it is to add the dev registry secret to the prod cluster.

@jstrachan WDYT?

Author: That does sound like a better solution. Now to figure out the syntax to do it.

![Container Setting](/images/v3/setContainer.png)
### Deploy Quickstart Project

> The following commands will deploy a simple JSnode app to staging and the remote production

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure everything is working as intended, the following commands will create and deploy a simple NodeJS app to staging and the remote production.
```
